feat: Add doc skill and fix documentation (#1609)
ansys/pymechanical: .github/skills/doc/SKILL.md

---
name: doc

> description: 'Write, review, or edit PyMechanical documentation. Use when: writing RST files, Python docstrings, Sphinx configuration, example scripts, README files, or any doc content for PyMechanical library. Covers NumPy docstrings, RST formatting, Google developer style guide rules, Sphinx extensions, Vale linting, and content structure.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Write, review, or edit PyMechanical documentation. Use when writing reStructuredText (RST) files, Python docstrings, Sphinx configurations, example scripts, README files, or any doc content for the PyMechanical library. This covers NumPy docstrings, RST file formatting, Google developer style guide rules, Sphinx extensions, Vale linting, and content structure.'
```

---
`
# PyMechanical Documentation Standards

All PyMechanical documentation follows the standards defined in the
[PyAnsys developer guide](https://dev.docs.pyansys.com). Apply these rules when writing or
reviewing documentation in any PyAnsys library.

---

## Writing Style (Google Developer Documentation Style Guide)

All prose in RST files, docstrings, and README files must follow the
[Google developer documentation style guide](https://developers.google.com/style):

- **Sentence case** for all headings and titles (capitalize first word and proper nouns only)
- **Active voice** and **present tense** wherever possible
- **Second person** — use "you"/"your"; avoid "we"

> - **Short sentences** — one idea per sentence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Short sentences** — one idea per sentence. Avoid semicolons. Break into two sentences instead.
```

- **American English** spelling and punctuation
- Omit "please" from instructions
- Replace "In order to" with "To"
- Vale enforces these rules in CI/CD (`doc/.vale.ini`)

---

## RST File Formatting

### Headings

Use this character hierarchy (must be at least as long as the heading text):

```rst
###############
Part title
###############

Section title
=============

Subsection
----------

Sub-subsection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sub-sub-subsection
++++++++++++++++++
```

### General Rules

- One blank line between paragraphs
- Blank line before and after every list
- No trailing whitespace; spaces not tabs for indentation

> - Max line length follows library convention (commonly 79–120 chars)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Max line length follows library convention (commonly 79–120 chars)
- Prose tagged as a code entity should be followed by a noun describing what type of object it is (such as a class, method, directory, or file).
```
Maybe this should be in the table in the next section instead?

> - Use `..` prefix for RST comments; use `.. todo::` directive for tracked items

Reviewer: Example of each of these might be helpful here.

### Inline Formatting

| Need | RST syntax | Notes |
|------|-----------|-------|
| Code entities | `` ``double backticks`` `` | Functions, classes, variables — **never** single backtick (renders italic) |

> | Bold | `**text**` | Use sparingly |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Bold | `**text**` | Use for UI elements; otherwise, use sparingly |
```

| Italic | `*text*` | Use for introducing terms |

### Code Blocks

```rst
.. code-block:: python

   import ansys.mechanical.core as pymechanical
   app = pymechanical.launch_mechanical()
```

Use `.. code-block:: console` for shell commands, `.. code-block:: python` for Python.

### Notices / Admonitions

```rst
.. note::

   Use notes for helpful but non-critical information.

.. warning::

   Use warnings for content that could cause data loss or unexpected behavior.

.. important::

>    Use for critical information that the user must not miss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use for critical information that must not be missed.
```
I wanted to make it parallel with the others by including the noun, but I wasn't sure if it was a notice or admonition? Does this seem awkward:
Use important notices for critical information that must not be missed.

```

### Cross-References and Links

- Use Sphinx `:ref:` labels for internal cross-references: `` :ref:`my_label` ``
- Use `:func:`, `:class:`, `:meth:`, `:attr:` for API cross-references
- Use `.. _label_name:` above headings to define reference targets

> - External URLs: `` `Link text <https://url>`_ ``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `` `Link text <https://url>`_`` format for external URLs. The link text should match exact name of the article or section that the link takes you to, including capitalization. If the referenced content is within a larger document, append that for clarity. For example: For more information on creating NumPy arrays, see
`Array creation <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/basics.creation.html>`_ in the NumPy documentation.
```
Should that space be there in showing the format:  `` `Link 
I know you are using it to designate it as a code entity, but it looks odd.

### Images

```rst
.. figure:: /path/to/image.png
   :alt: Descriptive alt text
   :width: 500px

>    Caption in sentence case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the caption, use full sentences or noun phrases. For example:
   alt="Architecture of an app that's built with Apps Script."
   alt="A card message."
```

```

---

## Documentation Content Structure

Every PyAnsys library documentation should have these top-level sections:

| Section | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| **Getting started** | Installation, prerequisites, first steps |
| **User guide** | Conceptual explanations, how-to guides |
| **API reference** | Auto-generated from docstrings (AutoAPI or autodoc) |
| **Examples** | Standalone example scripts via Sphinx-Gallery |
| **Contribute** | Contribution workflow, coding and doc style links |

Toctree in `doc/source/index.rst` drives the top-level hierarchy. Each section has its own

> `index.rst` with a local `toctree`. Section index filenames: short, descriptive, hyphen-separated.

Reviewer: Even though almost all libraries do follow this approach, Jorge once did a presentation saying that naming all of these files ``index.rst`` was bad in regard to SEO and the return of search results. I don't know if we can handle renaming these in some automated fashion. @jorgepiloto 

Along the same lines, should we consider some type of instructions for adding metadata to improve search results? I think @jorgepiloto also had suggested a tool that helped to do this efficiently and consistently.

Author: Good suggestion. But that means we might have to rewrite the dev guide also.

### Required Rules

- Always use triple double-quotes `"""` — never single quotes
- Lines ≤ 100 characters (keeps API summary tables readable)
- No trailing whitespace
- Use `""` for code entities (not `''` — single backtick renders italic in Sphinx)

### Sections Order

```
Short summary
Deprecation warning (if applicable)
Extended summary (if applicable)
Parameters (if applicable)
Returns (if applicable)
Raises (if applicable)
Examples (always required)
```

Sections rarely used in PyAnsys: `Yields`, `Receives`, `Other Parameters`, `Warns`,
`Warnings`, `See Also`, `Notes`, `References`.

### Short Summary Rules

| Object | Verb rule | Example |
|--------|-----------|---------|
| **Class** | Verb ending in **"s"** | `"""Provides the EMIT application interface."""` |
| **Method / function** | Verb **not** ending in "s" | `"""Export mesh statistics to a file."""` |
| **`@property`** | Noun phrase | `"""Path to the working directory."""` |

### Parameters Section

```python
Parameters
----------
obj : str
    Name of the object to assign the material to.
mat : str
    Name of the material.
timeout : float, optional

>     Time in seconds to wait. The default is ``30``.

Reviewer: This format is what was done originally. However newer libraries are being formatted like this:

timeout : float, default:  30
    Time in seconds to wait before timing out. 

If we continue the newer trend, we'd remove the next several bullets. We maybe could add an example when the object can be either a string or an integer where we would need to describe the default behavior for both object types. @MaxJPRey Do you prefer the newer way as it highlights the default better and makes the description shorter?

    def assignmaterial(self, obj, mat):
        """Assign a material to one or more objects.

        .. deprecated:: 0.4.0
           Use :func:`FieldAnalysis2D.assign_material` instead.

        Parameters
        ----------
        obj : str
            Name of the object.
        mat : str
            Name of the material.
        """
        warnings.warn(
            "`assignmaterial` is deprecated. Use `assign_material` instead.",
            DeprecationWarning,
        )
        self.assign_material(obj, mat)
```

For full removal, raise a custom error:

```python
class DeprecationError(RuntimeError):
    """Used for deprecated methods and functions."""

    def __init__(self, message="This feature has been deprecated."):
        RuntimeError.__init__(self, message)
```

---

## API Documentation Extensions

| Library type | Extension | Notes |
|-------------|-----------|-------|
| Newer libraries | `sphinx-autoapi` | Auto-discovers all Python objects; preferred |
| Older libraries | `sphinx.ext.autodoc` | Requires manual RST authoring |

AutoAPI renders members in this order:
Subpackages → Submodules → Exceptions → Classes → Functions → Methods

---

> ## Sphinx-Gallery Examples

Reviewer: What about libraries that are using Jupyter Notebooks rather than Python files for their examples?

Author: may be we can omit this example sections I guess which is not directly dependent on writing rst file. This can be added as another skill probably ? So that we can define it properly with sphinx build etc.

Author: I am removing sphinx related. We can have a seprate skill for that since this involve only rst files

| `Vale` | Prose linting for RST/MD | `.vale.ini` in `doc/`; enforces Google style guide + Ansys custom rules |

### Vale Commands

```bash
vale --config=doc/.vale.ini sync    # Download/update styles
vale --config=doc/.vale.ini .       # Check whole repo
vale --config=doc/.vale.ini doc/source/   # Check only doc directory
```

---

## Sphinx Build Configuration

Minimum required `SPHINXOPTS` flags in `Makefile` / `make.bat`:

| Flag | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `-j auto` | Auto-detect CPU cores for parallel builds |
| `-W` | Treat warnings as errors |
| `--keep-going` | Continue rendering even after a warning |

---

## Coding Style Quick Reference (for Code in Docs)

All code in examples and docstrings must follow PEP 8:

- **Line length:** 100 characters (configured via `ruff`)
- **Imports:** stdlib → third-party → local; one import per line; no wildcard imports
- **Naming:** `snake_case` for functions/methods/variables, `CamelCase` for classes,
  `UPPER_CASE` for constants, `lowercase` for packages/modules
- **Strings:** double quotes (configured via `ruff`)
- **Indentation:** 4 spaces, no tabs

---

## README Files

> - Prefer `.rst` over `.md` — RST content can be reused in Sphinx docs via `.. include::`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prefer `.rst` over `.md` — Markdown content can be reused in Sphinx docs via `.. include::`
```
I think you meant Markdown content here. If so, the next bullet can be removed.

Author: I think only rst content can be used. Not markdown. markdown does not support it.
